If you are getting weird but serious-sounding errors like 'database image is malformed', your database may be corrupt!

Nine times out of ten, corrupted databases happen because of hardware failure, usually the hard drive writing bad sectors. This is a serious problem.


first, shut everything down

Close the client immediately.

If you are on Windows, open task manager (Ctrl+Shift+Esc) and wait for client.exe to disappear from the list. If it takes more than a couple of minutes, forcibly close it with task manager.


check integrity

Then check your hard drive's integrity.

On Windows, go Start->Run (Win+R) and type 'cmd'. Type chkdsk into the new window and wait for it to scan your drive.

If you find problems, then your drive has been compromised in some way, and you should view it as unreliable. If it is an old drive, you should think about buying a replacement. The exception to 'buy a new drive' is if the existing one is new, works well, and you can trace the error to a specific event, like you had an unprotected power surge during a storm that violently reset your computer. The other exception is if you cannot afford it. :/

On Windows, tell chkdsk to fix the problems it found by running it again with the /F modifier, like 'chkdsk /F'.

If your hard drive is fine, please send me the details! If it could be my code breaking things, I want to know asap!


now what?

If you have a recent backup of your client, it is probably a good idea just to restore from that. A lot of hard drive errors cannot be recovered from. Just copy your backup client.db on top of your corrupted client.db and you are good to go.

If you do not have a backup, you'll have to try recovering what data you can from the corrupted db.

First of all, make a _new_ backup of the corrupted db, just in case something goes wrong with the recovery and we need to try again. You can just copy the client.db, but having a copy of all your files is a great idea if you have the time and space.

FreeFileSync is great for maintaining regular backups. It only takes a few minutes a week to stay safe.


fix the problem

Then close SQLiteStudio.

Open the SQLite shell, which should be in the db directory, called sqlite3 or sqlite3.exe. Type:

.open client.db
PRAGMA integrity_check;

The integrity check doesn't correct anything, but it lets you know the magnitude of the problem: if only a couple of issues are found, you may be in luck.

If it doesn't look too bad, then go:

.clone client_new.db

And wait a bit. It'll report its progress as it tries to copy your db's info to a new, cleaner db.

.exit

Will close the shell.

If the clone doesn't work, contact me and I'll help you manually extract what you can to a new db.

If the clone does work, rename client.db to client_old.db and client_new.db to client.db. Then, try running the client!

If you still get problems, please contact me. Check help/contact.html for ways to do that.